a standing ovation as the winners of
unesco's World Press Freedom prize were
announced a collective award honoring
the Palestinian journalists covering the
war on
Gaza none were able to come in
person but one of the recipients alzer's
Gaza bureau chief while Al sent a
message of
appreciation his wife children and other
relatives were killed by Israeli bombs
before he himself was targeted and
nearly killed he says Palestinian
journalists in Gaza need Justice and
protection they cannot do their jobs
without The Morbid feeling that they
themselves could become the news or
become the headlines instead of being
the ones reporting the
news at least 143 media workers and
journalists have been killed in Gaza in
nearly 7 months of War making it the
deadly conflict in modern history for
members of the profession but
Palestinian journalists are not alone
many others are targeted around the
world between 2018 and 2023 83
journalists were murdered in Latin
America alone these figures which are
chilling and should call us to action
are only surpassed by the more than 100
journalists brutally murdered in
Gaza this year's World Press Freedom
conference also focused specifically on
the dangers faced by journalists
covering the environment the numbers
don't lie according to a new report
commissioned by UNESCO the number of
attacks against journalists who are
specifically covering the environment
have risen 42% in The Last 5 Years this
includes physical attacks as well as
murders and this at a time when the
world is facing an unprecedented climate
crisis Nobel Peace laurate and
journalist Maria Resa believes that the
biggest threat to press freedom is the
manipulation and power of big tech
companies big Tech has by Design
distributed lies laced with fear anger
and hate faster and further than
journalism it's used to attack
journalists it's used to tear apart
trust right that's the foundational
corruption the best antidote experts say
is for those who attack facts and
silence journalists to be held
accountable they warn that the
prevailing system of impunity serves as
a blank check to Kill the Messenger
Lucia Newman Al jazer
Santiago make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer